docs/docker/readme.md, before:


## KGrid Docker Container


### Build Image
We are using [Spotify's Dockerfile Maven plug](https://github.com/spotify/dockerfile-maven) for docker image build and push.  
to create a docker image of the current activator project simply run the dockerfile:build after s build.  

``` mvn clean package dockerfile:build  -Ddockerfile.tag=1.0.4-rc2```

After this run you will have a docker image 
```
~/kgrid-activator $ docker images
REPOSITORY                  TAG                   IMAGE ID            CREATED             SIZE
kgrid/activator             latest                fbe2de94cfa9        3 minutes ago       149MB

```
### Using the Image
Now using the activator image you can create a container based on the image

#### Running the Activator 

```docker run -p 8080:8080 --name activator kgrid/activator```

Mapped to local shelf and running in the background

```docker run -p 8080:8080 -v /mydirectory/shelf:/home/kgrid/shelf --name activator -d  kgrid/activator ```

#### Stop and Start Actvator

```docker stop activator```

```docker start activator```


### Good to Know

1. View Container Logs  ```docker logs activator```
1. Access container ```docker exec -it activator sh```

### Push New Image

Activator images are stored on [DockerHub](https://cloud.docker.com/u/kgrid/repository/docker/kgrid/activator) 

```mvn dockerfile:push -Ddockerfile.tag=1.0.4-rc2 -s /Users/me/.m2/my_settings.xml ```

Details about KGrid Docker Hub access can be found on at [KGrid Docker](https://github.com/kgrid/kgrid-config/wiki/docker)

Commit message:

Add quick start docker-compose for latest activator

docs/docker/readme.md, after:


## KGrid Docker Container


### Build Image

To build a local docker image...

We are using [Spotify's Dockerfile Maven plug](https://github.com/spotify/dockerfile-maven) to create a docker image of the current activator project (the default is to build `kgrid/activator:latest`).  

``` mvn clean package dockerfile:build```

Or to build a tagged image (try to match the git tag)...

``` mvn clean package dockerfile:build  -Ddockerfile.tag=1.0.4-rc2```

After this run you will have a local docker image...
```
~/kgrid-activator $ docker images
REPOSITORY                  TAG                   IMAGE ID            CREATED             SIZE
kgrid/activator             latest                fbe2de94cfa9        3 minutes ago       149MB
```
See below for info on how to [push the new image](#push-new-image).

### Using the Image

Now using the activator image you can create a container name ***activator*** from the `kgrid/activator` image and run it on port 8080...
 
```docker run -p 8080:8080 --name activator kgrid/activator```

or mapped to local shelf and running in the background...

```docker run -p 8080:8080 -v ${PWD}/shelf:/home/kgrid/shelf --name activator -d kgrid/activator ```

Once created, you can stop and start the container using `docker stop activator` and `docker start acivator`.

#### Quick start
If you just want to run a current activator, there is a `docker-compose.yaml` file that uses the the `kgrid/activator:latest` image, with presets for port and shelf. Try:

```docker-compose up```

which will use the local image tagged `latest` (built with `mvn clean package dockerfile:build`) or the `kgrid/activator:latest` build from Docker Hub.

#### Good to Know

1. View Container Logs  ```docker logs activator```
1. Start a shell in the container ```docker exec -it activator sh```

### Push New Image

Activator images are stored on [DockerHub](https://cloud.docker.com/u/kgrid/repository/docker/kgrid/activator) 

```mvn dockerfile:push -Ddockerfile.tag=1.0.4-rc2 -s /Users/me/.m2/my_settings.xml ```

Details about KGrid Docker Hub access can be found on at [KGrid Docker](https://github.com/kgrid/kgrid-config/wiki/docker)
