docs/configuration.md, before:

# Configuration

There are a few environment variables that can be set to control different aspects of the activator. They can be set as
environment variables, or passed into the terminal command while running the activator.

## Security Configuration

### `cors.url`

- The Activator by default allows all origins access to the api.
    - Default value: none
    - Command line:
      ```bash
      java -jar kgrid-activator-#.#.#.jar --cors.url=https://myservice.com
      ```
    - Environment Variable:
      ```bash
      export CORS_URL=https://myservice.com
      ```

### `spring.profiles.active`

- Sets the security profile, which requires a username and password to access certain endpoints. Setting to `dev` will
  put the activator in dev mode, with no security.
    - See
      the [Spring-Boot documentation](https://docs.spring.io/spring-boot/docs/2.4.3/reference/html/appendix-application-properties.html#spring.profiles.active)
      for more details.

  __Note: if not in dev mode, the username and password must be set. See the entries for `spring.security.user.name`
  and `spring.security.user.password`.__
    - Default value: Secured
    - Command line:
      ```bash
      java -jar kgrid-activator-#.#.#.jar --spring.profiles.active=dev
      ```
    - Environment Variable:
      ```bash
      export SPRING_PROFILES_ACTIVE=dev
      ```
- Endpoints secured:
    - `GET /actuator/health` (Secure endpoint shows only `UP` or `DOWN`)
    - `GET /actuator/info`
    - `GET /activate`
    - `POST /kos`
    - `POST /kos/manifest`
    - `POST /kos/manifest-list`
    - `PUT /kos/{naan}/{name}/{version}`
    - `DELETE /kos/{naan}/{name}/{version}`

### `spring.security.user.name`

- Specify the admin username. Security is enabled by default, so if this property is not set, the admin features will be
  inaccessible.
    - Default value: none
    - Command line:
      ```bash
      java -jar kgrid-activator-#.#.#.jar --spring.security.user.name=AzureDiamond
      ```
    - Environment Variable:
      ```bash
      export SPRING_SECURITY_USER_NAME=AzureDiamond
      ```

### `spring.security.user.password`

- Specify the admin password. Security is enabled by default, so if this property is not set, the admin features will be
  inaccessible.
    - Default value: none
    - Command line:
      ```bash
      java -jar kgrid-activator-#.#.#.jar --spring.security.password=hunter2
      ```
    - Environment Variable:
      ```bash
      export SPRING_SECURITY_PASSWORD=hunter2
      ```

## Startup Configuration

### `kgrid.shelf.cdostore.url`

- Specify the path to a custom shelf directory, which can be preloaded with KOs. Can be an absolute or relative path.
    - Default value: `shelf` (in current working directory)
    - Command line (absolute path):
      ```bash
      java -jar kgrid-activator-#.#.#.jar --kgrid.shelf.cdostore.url=filesystem:file:///data/myshelf
      ```
    - relative path:
      ```bash
      java -jar kgrid-activator-#.#.#.jar --kgrid.shelf.cdostore.url=filesystem:file:///c:/Users/me/myshelf
      ```
    - environment variable:
      ```bash
      export KGRID_SHELF_CDOSTORE_URL=filesystem:file:///data/myshelf
      ```

### `kgrid.shelf.manifest`

- Specify the path to a json file that contains a list of references to KOs that will be loaded on startup. Existing KOs
  in the shelf directory will be overwritten if they are contained in the manifest. This can be set to a file path, or a
  URL. Check out a properly formatted manifest in
  the [latest release of the Example Collection](https://github.com/kgrid-objects/example-collection/releases/latest).
    - Default Value: none
    - Command line (file path):
      ```bash
      java -jar kgrid-activator-#.#.#.jar --kgrid.shelf.manifest=filesystem:file:///c:/Users/me/myStuff/manifest.json
      ```
    - Command line (URL):
      ```bash
      java -jar kgrid-activator-#.#.#.jar --kgrid.shelf.manifest=https://github.com/kgrid-objects/example-collection/releases/download/4.1.1/manifest.json
      ```
    - Environment variable (URL):
      ```bash
      export KGRID_SHELF_MANIFEST=filesystem:file:///c:/Users/me/myStuff/manifest.json
      ```

### `server.port`

- Specify a particular port on which the activator should start
    - Default value: `8080`
    - Command line:
    ```bash
    java -jar kgrid-activator-#.#.#.jar --server.port=9090
    ```
    - Environment Variable:
    ```bash
    export SERVER_PORT=9090
    ```

### `kgrid.activator.adapter-locations`

- Specify additional adapters to be loaded. Can be a comma-separated list of .jar file or directory urls or a single jar
  file url or url of a directory containing jar files.
    - Default value: `file:adapters`
    - Command line:
    ```bash
    java -jar kgrid-activator-#.#.#.jar --kgrid.activator.adapter-locations=file:adapters,file:more-adapters/my-adapter.jar,https://repo1.maven.org/maven2/org/kgrid/resource-adapter/0.1.3/resource-adapter-0.1.3.jar
    ```
    - Environment Variable:
    ```bash
    export KGRID_ACTIVATOR_ADAPTER-LOCATIONS=file:adapters,file:more-adapters/my-adapter.jar,https://repo1.maven.org/maven2/org/kgrid/resource-adapter/0.1.3/resource-adapter-0.1.3.jar
    ```

## Spring Configuration Settings

- The Activator is built on Spring, and can use many
  of [Spring's application properties](https://docs.spring.io/spring-boot/docs/2.4.3/reference/html/appendix-application-properties.html)
  for configuration.

## Proposed Configuration

### `kgrid.activator.allowRuntimeImport`

- While running the Activator packaged KO (zip file) can be uploaded to the `/kos` endpoint to add a KO to the shelf
- While running the Activator a `manifest` (json or yaml) can be POSTed to the `/kos` endpoint to initiate loading of
  one or more KOs from an external path (See [Loading KOs onto the Shelf](https://kgrid.org/kgrid-shelf) in the Kgrid
  Shelf documentation)

### `kgrid.activator.autoActivateOnStartup`

- Toggle whether or not the activator tries to activate KOs on startup
- Currently, the activator will try to activate everything in the shelf directory, as well as everything in the manifest
  set to `kgrid.shelf.manifest`.

Commit message:

added debug config section in docs

docs/configuration.md, after:

# Configuration

There are a few environment variables that can be set to control different aspects of the activator. They can be set as
environment variables, or passed into the terminal command while running the activator.

## Security Configuration

### `cors.url`

- The Activator by default allows all origins access to the api.
    - Default value: none
    - Command line:
      ```bash
      java -jar kgrid-activator-#.#.#.jar --cors.url=https://myservice.com
      ```
    - Environment Variable:
      ```bash
      export CORS_URL=https://myservice.com
      ```

### `spring.profiles.active`

- Sets the security profile, which requires a username and password to access certain endpoints. Setting to `dev` will
  put the activator in dev mode, with no security.
    - See
      the [Spring-Boot documentation](https://docs.spring.io/spring-boot/docs/2.4.3/reference/html/appendix-application-properties.html#spring.profiles.active)
      for more details.

  __Note: if not in dev mode, the username and password must be set. See the entries for `spring.security.user.name`
  and `spring.security.user.password`.__
    - Default value: Secured
    - Command line:
      ```bash
      java -jar kgrid-activator-#.#.#.jar --spring.profiles.active=dev
      ```
    - Environment Variable:
      ```bash
      export SPRING_PROFILES_ACTIVE=dev
      ```
- Endpoints secured:
    - `GET /actuator/health` (Secure endpoint shows only `UP` or `DOWN`)
    - `GET /actuator/info`
    - `GET /activate`
    - `POST /kos`
    - `POST /kos/manifest`
    - `POST /kos/manifest-list`
    - `PUT /kos/{naan}/{name}/{version}`
    - `DELETE /kos/{naan}/{name}/{version}`

### `spring.security.user.name`

- Specify the admin username. Security is enabled by default, so if this property is not set, the admin features will be
  inaccessible.
    - Default value: none
    - Command line:
      ```bash
      java -jar kgrid-activator-#.#.#.jar --spring.security.user.name=AzureDiamond
      ```
    - Environment Variable:
      ```bash
      export SPRING_SECURITY_USER_NAME=AzureDiamond
      ```

### `spring.security.user.password`

- Specify the admin password. Security is enabled by default, so if this property is not set, the admin features will be
  inaccessible.
    - Default value: none
    - Command line:
      ```bash
      java -jar kgrid-activator-#.#.#.jar --spring.security.password=hunter2
      ```
    - Environment Variable:
      ```bash
      export SPRING_SECURITY_PASSWORD=hunter2
      ```

## Startup Configuration

### `kgrid.shelf.cdostore.url`

- Specify the path to a custom shelf directory, which can be preloaded with KOs. Can be an absolute or relative path.
    - Default value: `shelf` (in current working directory)
    - Command line (absolute path):
      ```bash
      java -jar kgrid-activator-#.#.#.jar --kgrid.shelf.cdostore.url=filesystem:file:///data/myshelf
      ```
    - relative path:
      ```bash
      java -jar kgrid-activator-#.#.#.jar --kgrid.shelf.cdostore.url=filesystem:file:///c:/Users/me/myshelf
      ```
    - environment variable:
      ```bash
      export KGRID_SHELF_CDOSTORE_URL=filesystem:file:///data/myshelf
      ```

### `kgrid.shelf.manifest`

- Specify the path to a json file that contains a list of references to KOs that will be loaded on startup. Existing KOs
  in the shelf directory will be overwritten if they are contained in the manifest. This can be set to a file path, or a
  URL. Check out a properly formatted manifest in
  the [latest release of the Example Collection](https://github.com/kgrid-objects/example-collection/releases/latest).
    - Default Value: none
    - Command line (file path):
      ```bash
      java -jar kgrid-activator-#.#.#.jar --kgrid.shelf.manifest=filesystem:file:///c:/Users/me/myStuff/manifest.json
      ```
    - Command line (URL):
      ```bash
      java -jar kgrid-activator-#.#.#.jar --kgrid.shelf.manifest=https://github.com/kgrid-objects/example-collection/releases/download/4.1.1/manifest.json
      ```
    - Environment variable (URL):
      ```bash
      export KGRID_SHELF_MANIFEST=filesystem:file:///c:/Users/me/myStuff/manifest.json
      ```

### `server.port`

- Specify a particular port on which the activator should start
    - Default value: `8080`
    - Command line:
    ```bash
    java -jar kgrid-activator-#.#.#.jar --server.port=9090
    ```
    - Environment Variable:
    ```bash
    export SERVER_PORT=9090
    ```

### `kgrid.activator.adapter-locations`

- Specify additional adapters to be loaded. Can be a comma-separated list of .jar file or directory urls or a single jar
  file url or url of a directory containing jar files.
    - Default value: `file:adapters`
    - Command line:
    ```bash
    java -jar kgrid-activator-#.#.#.jar --kgrid.activator.adapter-locations=file:adapters,file:more-adapters/my-adapter.jar,https://repo1.maven.org/maven2/org/kgrid/resource-adapter/0.1.3/resource-adapter-0.1.3.jar
    ```
    - Environment Variable:
    ```bash
    export KGRID_ACTIVATOR_ADAPTER-LOCATIONS=file:adapters,file:more-adapters/my-adapter.jar,https://repo1.maven.org/maven2/org/kgrid/resource-adapter/0.1.3/resource-adapter-0.1.3.jar
    ```

## Debug Configuration

### `logging.level`

- Specify the logging level for a particular package
    - Highest level is `logging.level.root` which will affect all classes
    - A particular package can be specified by adding the package location to the end like so:
        ```bash
        logging.level.org.kgrid.adapter.proxy
        ```
    - Default value: `INFO`
    - Possible Values: `INFO, DEBUG, WARN, ERROR`
    - Command line:
    ```bash
    java -jar kgrid-activator-#.#.#.jar --logging.level.org.kgrid.classToLog=DEBUG
    ```
    - Environment Variable:
    ```bash
    export logging.level.org.kgrid.classToLog=DEBUG
    ```
    - Note: This also works with Spring classes, like RestTemplate, which will allow you to see more info about particular rest calls.
        - Example: `logging.level.org.springframework.web.client.RestTemplate=DEBUG`
  
## Spring Configuration Settings

- The Activator is built on Spring, and can use many
  of [Spring's application properties](https://docs.spring.io/spring-boot/docs/2.4.3/reference/html/appendix-application-properties.html)
  for configuration.

## Proposed Configuration

### `kgrid.activator.allowRuntimeImport`

- While running the Activator packaged KO (zip file) can be uploaded to the `/kos` endpoint to add a KO to the shelf
- While running the Activator a `manifest` (json or yaml) can be POSTed to the `/kos` endpoint to initiate loading of
  one or more KOs from an external path (See [Loading KOs onto the Shelf](https://kgrid.org/kgrid-shelf) in the Kgrid
  Shelf documentation)

### `kgrid.activator.autoActivateOnStartup`

- Toggle whether or not the activator tries to activate KOs on startup
- Currently, the activator will try to activate everything in the shelf directory, as well as everything in the manifest
  set to `kgrid.shelf.manifest`.
